Welcome back in the previous step we have connected the currency calculation service to the Eureka naming server
and the currency exchange service to the Eureka naming server.
And what we want to do is when the currency calculation service invokes currency exchange service we
would want it to use the naming server to find out the details of the currency exchange service.
So what we would want to do is instead of hard coding the UR for ribbon we would want
ribbon to talk to the nami server and retrieve the details of all the instances of this services.
The thing is we have already established a lot of code for that.
One of the things which we did when we created the feign clients and the ribbon clients.
We have used the name of the application as currency exchange service.
If you look at Eureka that's exactly the service name in here as well.
So the currency action service is what we are really interested in retrieving the details of however
what we did over here.
We configure the list of services all that you would need to do to enable ribbon to talk to the naming
server using this name is to disable this because in that application we have already configured Eureka
in the currency conversion service in the previous step.
We already configured the URL for Eureka so it already knows about Eureka.
So all that I would need to do is disable the list of servers and this exchange service would be starting
talking to the Eureka server.
So what I'll do is I will kill all the applications which are running so that we have control over what
are the application and the instances that are running.
So lets slowly start off one by one.
The first thing I would want to start off is the naming server application.
So if I refresh Eureka right now you would see that there are no instances registered with Eureka
that's cool.
Now I would start up the currency exchange service one of the instances of it and starting it on eight thousand.
cool that's have started up.
And when I refresh the Eureka server I would see that the currency exchange service is now up and running.
So its running on eight thousand.
That's cool.
I'll clear the console out and I will launch up the instance of the currency conversion service application
on 8100.
One of the important things that you can check right now is in application dot properties.
Nowhere in the application dot properties of currency conversion service we don't have the URL for where the currency
exchange services is located.
The application is started up let's refresh the console you can see now there is one instance of currency
conversion service and one instance of the currency exchange service and nowhere in the currency
conversion service.
We have hardcoded the URL of the currency exchange service.
So over here this is comment it we only have the URL to Eureka.
We don't know about the currency exchange service.
And similarly you can look up the proxy as well even in the proxy.
We don't have any URL hard hardcoded in here.
One of the important things with the naming server is you need to allow a little bit of time for it
to warm up.
So just allow of 30 seconds to one minute before you try executing the service requests.
when I directly go to the currency exchange this would obviously work because the application is up and running.
I would get the response back as expected.
So currency exchanges up and running.
Now I would want to launch up the currency converter using feign Let's see what would happen when I
have fired this in you'd see that I'm getting a proper response back.
The important thing for us to understand right now is that without configuring the URL of the currency
exchange service inside the currency calculation service we are able to get the currency calculation
service to talk to the currency exchange service the way it's happening is ribbon asks the naming server
it ask OK what are the instances of the currency exchange.
service and it is gets a list back.
And then it would invoke the appropriate currency exchange service we'll repeat the same thing a few
times.
You would see that it's always going to eight thousand.
What I'll do now is I'll bring up another instance.
So I'll say run.
And I would want to run the currency exchange.
service application on eight thousand one the currency exchange service.
Is launched up on port eight thousand one let's see the Eureka you see that there are two instances
that are present currency exchange service eight thousand one and 8000.
And let's start hitting this server.
So let's start hitting the currency conversion service eight thousand port is eight thousand.
Port is eight thousand.
Still if you wait for a minute or so and try refreshing it you would see that the request alternate
between port 8000 and port eight thousand one eight thousand one eight thousand eight thousand
one.
One of the things you can try and do is bring up a couple of more instances up of the currency exchange
service and wait for a few minutes.
And within that time the naming server and the ribbon would be picking up those changes and you would
see that all the requests to the currency converter would be distributed among all the currency exchange
applications to which are run in.
What I'll do now is I'll kill one of the applications which are running so let's kill the one which is
running on eight thousand so I'm killing the currency exchange service application on eight thousand.
You can pause for 30 seconds and then refresh.
You'd see from now on that all the requests would start going to eight thousand one only.
There will not be any failure because the application and port 8000 has been brought down.
The setup that we have created with Eureka and ribbon will be able to easily adjust to the fact that new
instances have coming up and going down in the step.
We saw a demonstration of how a naming server makes it easy to connect to micro services.
We brought up multiple instances of currency exchange service and we saw how they were being registered
with the naming service.
We will talk about this more in the next step.